Introduction
============

This is an automated system for the installation of the [Redmine](http://www.redmine.org) project management server in arbitrary environment. [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/) is used to setup development environment.  [Ansible](http://www.ansible.com) is used for provisioning of software components on empty operating system in all environments.

Installation
============

Setup requires Internet connection for all involved machines as various components pull their packages (docker, bundler, yum ...). If you have proxy in the environment make sure that [proxy environment variables](http://www.gnu.org/software/wget/manual/html_node/Proxies.html) are set in the console. This is usually already set in Linux like systems, but on Windows you will need to do this manually. 

Prerequisites for testing
--------------------------

- Any x64 operating system
- VirtualBox 3.18+
- Vagrant 1.6+

Prerequisites for production server
-----------------------------------

- Centos 6.6 minimal 
- `sshd` with `root` password access enabled for ansible provisioning.

Run
---

- Open shell in vagrant directory and type `vagrant up`. This will create 2 machines - `dominator` and `redserver`. Dominator is used as an ansible master and its sole purpose is to provision ansible playbooks to redserver. Redserver is actual server that runs the Redmine web application in docker container which is linked to mysql container. Vagrantfile requires some plugins which will be automatically installed when you `up` it. After machines are provisioned both servers will contain bare minimum for ansible to work correctly.
- Once machines are up and running (`vagrant status`), dominator will provision ansible playbook to redserver (only when using "host only network" which is enabled by default). To do it manually on production server use `hosts_prod.yml` as inventory file, connect to dominator (`vagrant ssh dominator`) cd to `/ansible` directory and then use some of the following commands:

```sh
# provision everything
ansible-playbook -i hosts_vagrant site.yml

# provison only mysql and redmine docker services
ansible-playbook -i hosts_vagrant site.yml -t mysql,redmine

# Ask for root password
ansible-playbook -i hosts_vagrant site.yml -k

# Install latest kernel for docker
ansible-playbook -i hosts_vagrant site.yml -k -e latest_kernel=True
```

The following tags can be used to limit provisioning: `base`, `docker`, `mysql`, `redmine`, `redmine-data`.

Server is now ready. Check it out by using administrative commands as `root` user:  

```sh
d ps                        # List running containers 
d logs -f redmine           # Redmine supervisor logs
e redmine                   # Enter container 

service mysql restart       # docker mysql service, must be started before redmine for linking 
service redmine restart     # docker redmine service 
```

Configuration
=============

Vagrant
-------

- `PUBLIC`  
Set it to true to create `public_network` with IP issued by a DHCP or false to create host only network. The default is `false` - private network will be created with the hard coded IP addresses 192.168.0.10 && 11 for dominator and redserver. Vagrant plugin `vagrant-hostsupdater` adds this IP to hosts files so that you can access server using names defined in Vagrantfile (this works only for private network).
- PROXY variables  
Plugin `vagrant-proxyconf` propagates local proxy config which it gets from standard linux environment variables. In Windows, define those manually. 

Ansible
-------

There are 4 ansible roles that you can somewhat customize.

- **base**  
Role used to setup users and basic packages. Customize users and packages in file `default\main.yml`. Other then that, there is a `site.yml` setting `latest_kernel` set to false by default which can be used to install latest Centos6 mainline kernel from ELRepo because docker may work better with it. 
- **docker**  
Role used to install and setup docker and its shell aliases.
- **docker_mysql**  
Role used to install mysql container and init.d service. In its `vars\main.yml` customize redmine database name, user and password and container name and version. *NOTE*: If you change container name it should conform to certain linking scheme. See [sameersbn/docker-redmine](https://github.com/sameersbn/docker-redmine).
- **docker_redmine**  
Role used to install redmine container and service. In its `vars\main.yml` customize SMTP settings and container name and version keeping in mind the same notes as in the case of mysql container. In `files` folder you can customize redmine plugins. 

Redmine plugins
---------------

Script `roles\docker_redmine\files\data\plugins\redmine-plugins-install.sh` is used on `dominator` to obtain latest plugin versions from the Internet. It is invoked automatically if the redmine plugins directory doesn't contain file named `init` which is generated by the mentioned script. Current plugin folders will be deleted if needed. Edit the script to add more plugins and fix Gemfile problems (redundant gems, version conflicts etc..).

Data
====

Database is in `/opt/redmine/data`. If it doesn't exist it will be created when `mysql` service starts.

Redmine data are `/opt/redmine/data`. Backup `/files` directory periodically which keeps redmine attachments and uploads.

Notes
=====

- Redmine is started by `supervisor` which starts `unicorn` (config: `/home/redmine/redmine/config/unicorn.rb`). Nginx serves static content.
- Ansible will require password when using rsync to copy redmine-data. This seems to be ansible bug.
